The selection of a Nobel Prize Laureate is a lengthy and carefully executed process. The processes slightly differ for each
of the six prizes; the results are the same for each of the six categories.
Following is the description for the Nobel Prize in Medicine. The main actors in the processes for Nomination, Selection
and Accepting and Receiving the award are the:
• Nobel Committee for Medicine,
• Nominators,
• Specially appointed experts,
• Nobel Assembly and
• Nobel Laureates.
Each year in September, in the year preceding the year the Prize is awarded, around 3000 invitations or confidential
nomination forms are sent out by the Nobel Committee for Medicine to selected Nominators.
The Nominators are given the opportunity to nominate one or more Nominees. The completed forms must be made
available to the Nobel Committee for Medicine for the selection of the preliminary candidates.
The Nobel Committee for Medicine performs a first screening and selects the preliminary candidates.
Following this selection, the Nobel Committee for Medicine may request the assistance of experts. If so, it sends the list
with the preliminary candidates to these specially appointed experts with the request to assess the preliminary candidates’
work.
From this, the recommended final candidate laureates and associated recommended final works are selected and the
Nobel Committee for Medicine writes the reports with recommendations.
The Nobel Committee for Medicine submits the report with recommendations to the Nobel Assembly. This report
contains the list of final candidates and associated works.
The Nobel Assembly chooses the Nobel Laureates in Medicine and associated through a majority vote and the names of
the Nobel Laureates and associated works are announced. The Nobel Assembly meets twice for this selection. In the first
meeting of the Nobel Assembly the report is discussed. In the second meeting the Nobel Laureates in Medicine and
associated works are chosen.
The Nobel Prize Award Ceremony is held in Stockholm.